3 new North Atlantic right whale calves spotted off coasts of Florida, Georgia

Three North Atlantic right whale calves were spotted off the coasts of Georgia and Florida earlier this week, bringing the total number of endangered right whales born this year up to nine.

The three new births mean this year's calving season has already outpaced last year's, when seven newborns where spotted. No new calves were born in 2018. Scientists say the increase in calves is a positive development for a species that's under threat.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a U.S. government agency that monitors coastal and marine ecosystems, tweeted the birth announcement on Tuesday. 

Whale No. 2223, named Calvin, was spotted with her calf swimming off the coast of Georgia. Whale No. 2642, also known as Echo, was seen with her calf off Atlantic Beach, Fla. And Arrow, whale No. 3290, and her calf were spotted off Amelia Island, Fla. 

Mayo was thrilled to hear about the three new calves, but said little is known about them so far.

"We'll have to wait a little while even to be able to clearly identify them one from another."

Although this is good news for a species whose population has been drastically declining since 2010, Mayo said, "We need a lot more" right whale calves.

"I worry that the arrow points to zero, to extinction, but these whales have been around for millennia and I think we can hope that their reproduction increases," Mayo said, adding he's hopeful humans will figure out a way to prevent right whale deaths.

Ship strikes and entanglement in fishing gear have been blamed for some of the right whale deaths in recent years.

One of the newborn calves was injured by a ship's propeller in early January. The injuries include damage to the calf's mouth, which could hamper its ability to eat. 

"[It] has a very bad cut across its head that — at least for some of us — throws a question out, can this little whale live? And particularly can it nurse?" Mayo said. 

"We'll just have to keep our fingers crossed."

The other eight calves remain in good shape, Mayo said. 

North Atlantic right whales are an endangered species, with a population that has fallen to the low 400s in recent years. There are only about 100 breeding females.

Twelve right whales died last year, according to Philip Hamilton, a research scientist at the Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life.

No calves were reported in the previous year.